README.md, before:

# 🍽️ Food Donation Platform  

A web-based platform designed to **reduce food waste** and **combat hunger** by connecting **food donors** (restaurants, households, suppliers) with **recipients** (shelters, food banks, community centers).  

🌍 This project promotes **community collaboration** to rescue surplus food, reduce waste, and deliver nutritious meals to those in need.  

---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack  

**Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
**Backend:** _(Planned for future — e.g., Node.js / Spring Boot)_  
**Database:** _(Planned for future — e.g., MongoDB / MySQL)_  

---

## 🎯 Project Overview  

Food wastage is a major global issue — millions of tons of edible food are thrown away each year, while millions go hungry.  
This **Food Donation Platform** aims to bridge that gap by making the donation process **simple, transparent, and community-driven**.  

It allows:  
- **Donors** (restaurants, households) to list surplus food.  
- **Recipients** (shelters, NGOs) to request or collect available donations.  
- **Volunteers** to participate in pickup and delivery operations.  

---

## 🌟 Key Features  

### 👥 Donor & Recipient Registration  
Simple onboarding for both donors and recipients, making it easy to start donating or receiving food.  

### 🍱 Food Listing & Availability  
Donors can list food with details like description, quantity, and expiration date.  
Recipients can browse available food nearby, filtered by **location**, **food type**, or **urgency**.  

### 🏆 Donor Rewards Program  
Recognition system for regular donors — including badges, certificates, or small incentives to encourage continuous contribution.  

### 🚚 Pickup & Delivery Coordination  
A section for volunteers or partnered services to manage donation pickups and deliveries.  

### ✅ Verification & Safety Guidelines  
Donation guidelines for safe food handling, including expiry checks, hygiene, and packaging standards.  

### 📊 Impact Tracker  
Dashboard to visualize total donations, food rescued, and meals served — showcasing the impact of the initiative.  

### 💪 Volunteer Opportunities  
Dedicated section where users can sign up to help in food collection, sorting, or delivery.  

---

## 🧠 Skills Demonstrated  

- Responsive frontend design using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  
- UI/UX for real-world social impact systems  
- Modular, clean structure for scalability  
- Data representation (mock data / dynamic UI interactions)  
- Community-centric web development approach  

---

📂 food-donation-platform/
├── index.html
├── styles.css
├── script.js
└── assets/


---

🚀 Getting Started
1️⃣ Clone the Repository
git clone https://github.com/cyberbuddyshivam/FOOD-DONATION-PLATFORM.git
cd FOOD-DONATION-PLATFORM

2️⃣ Run Locally

Simply open the index.html file in your browser or use a local live server (like the VS Code Live Server extension).

🔮 Future Enhancements

🧩 Add backend (Spring Boot / Node.js) for real-time listings
🗺️ Integrate Google Maps API for nearby food locations
📦 Add database to store user data and donation history
🧾 Implement donor reward certificates
🔔 Add notification system for donation requests
📱 Develop a mobile app version

👨‍💻 Author

Shivam Sharma
💻 GitHub

🔗 LinkedIn

✉️ Email

⭐ If you find this project inspiring, consider giving it a star!

Commit message:

Update README with license and author details
Added license information and updated author section.

README.md, after:

# 🍽️ Food Donation Platform  

A web-based platform designed to **reduce food waste** and **combat hunger** by connecting **food donors** (restaurants, households, suppliers) with **recipients** (shelters, food banks, community centers).  

🌍 This project promotes **community collaboration** to rescue surplus food, reduce waste, and deliver nutritious meals to those in need.  

---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack  

**Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
**Backend:** _(Planned for future — e.g., Node.js / Spring Boot)_  
**Database:** _(Planned for future — e.g., MongoDB / MySQL)_  

---

## 🎯 Project Overview  

Food wastage is a major global issue — millions of tons of edible food are thrown away each year, while millions go hungry.  
This **Food Donation Platform** aims to bridge that gap by making the donation process **simple, transparent, and community-driven**.  

It allows:  
- **Donors** (restaurants, households) to list surplus food.  
- **Recipients** (shelters, NGOs) to request or collect available donations.  
- **Volunteers** to participate in pickup and delivery operations.  

---

## 🌟 Key Features  

### 👥 Donor & Recipient Registration  
Simple onboarding for both donors and recipients, making it easy to start donating or receiving food.  

### 🍱 Food Listing & Availability  
Donors can list food with details like description, quantity, and expiration date.  
Recipients can browse available food nearby, filtered by **location**, **food type**, or **urgency**.  

### 🏆 Donor Rewards Program  
Recognition system for regular donors — including badges, certificates, or small incentives to encourage continuous contribution.  

### 🚚 Pickup & Delivery Coordination  
A section for volunteers or partnered services to manage donation pickups and deliveries.  

### ✅ Verification & Safety Guidelines  
Donation guidelines for safe food handling, including expiry checks, hygiene, and packaging standards.  

### 📊 Impact Tracker  
Dashboard to visualize total donations, food rescued, and meals served — showcasing the impact of the initiative.  

### 💪 Volunteer Opportunities  
Dedicated section where users can sign up to help in food collection, sorting, or delivery.  

---

## 🧠 Skills Demonstrated  

- Responsive frontend design using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  
- UI/UX for real-world social impact systems  
- Modular, clean structure for scalability  
- Data representation (mock data / dynamic UI interactions)  
- Community-centric web development approach  

---

📂 food-donation-platform/
├── index.html
├── styles.css
├── script.js
└── assets/


---

🚀 Getting Started
1️⃣ Clone the Repository
git clone https://github.com/cyberbuddyshivam/FOOD-DONATION-PLATFORM.git
cd FOOD-DONATION-PLATFORM

2️⃣ Run Locally

Simply open the index.html file in your browser or use a local live server (like the VS Code Live Server extension).

🔮 Future Enhancements

🧩 Add backend (Spring Boot / Node.js) for real-time listings
🗺️ Integrate Google Maps API for nearby food locations
📦 Add database to store user data and donation history
🧾 Implement donor reward certificates
🔔 Add notification system for donation requests
📱 Develop a mobile app version
📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
You are free to use, modify, and distribute it with attribution.

## 👨‍💻 Author  

**Shivam Sharma**  
💻 [GitHub](https://github.com/cyberbuddyshivam)  
🔗 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/cyberbuddyshivam/))  
✉️ [Email](mailto:shivam1110sharma@gmail.com)

⭐ Don’t forget to star the repository if you found it helpful!
